---
layout: blog-post  
title: "Detached Trading - Your Value is Not in Your PNL"  
date: 2024-06-10 
categories: psychology
author:
    name: Zack
    image: "/assets/images/authors/zack.jpg"
---

I'm a competitive person and it can be really difficult when I have a losing day. It can send me spiraling really quickly and struggling beyond just how I feel about trading. It can make me feel worse in every other area of my life. 

I want to win. I hate losing. Trading is such a maddening thing sometimes because no matter how much work you put into it, you are going to have trades that don't go your way. The ones who are able to manage this and stick to a system are the ones who can be successful long term. 

It's so similar to baseball in some respects. Successful hitters only get hits around 30 percent of the time. It's unusual for anyone to even come close to a 40 percent success rate in hitting. That means over half the time the hitter is unsuccesful. 

I used to play baseball and tracked my stats. If I had two hits out of four at bats, I was perfectly happy. Especially if those two hits were homeruns or extra-base hits! 

With my trading, I really struggle with having any losing trades. This is a recipe for disaster, because it means that I am subject to a lot of the pitfalls that can come with trading: Overtrading, greed, fear, hope. All of which can cause things to get worse in trading. 

Even as I type this I am going through a trade right now that isn't going my way and I am feeling incredibly frustrated with how it turned out. It feels like it is completely defying logic, which is something that of course it can do since this is the market but it feels so personal to me right now that I can just feel rage, humiliation, frustration, and a general sense of unworthiness because of the way that this trade turned on me. Even earlier in the trade, it was working in my favor so I moved my stop loss up to a smaller loss to manage risk. I then removed the stop because I realized it could go against me. I moved it back to my full stop loss, which is still small, but I felt like I had to give the trade more space. Stuff like this is why trading detached is so important. 

So, I think the biggest thing that I am trying to remind myself each day is that my value as a human being is not tied to my PNL during trading. I can't let a few losing trades dictate how I feel about myself for the rest of the day. I need to go into a trading day recognizing that there will be times that I don't get a "hit" and will strikeout. That is expected. I just have to learn how to handle this better so that I don't let it affect my other, more important roles in my life - being a great husband and dad, and the many other important things that I need to be focused on in my life. 
